To get some intuition on transaction costs and the reason that trading impacts prices,
let's look at what's called a limit order book which is a list of
all the bids and asks for an asset that are made by market participants.
Bids are commitments to buy a certain quantity of an asset at a specified price.
Asks also called offers,
are promises to sell a certain quantity of the asset at a specified price.
The lowest offer price is called the best offer,
because it's the one that is most likely to be picked up
by another participant who wishes to buy.
Similarly, the highest bid price is called a best bid,
since it's the highest price that a participant has committed to buy it.
This means that another participant who wishes to sell will first
sell to this participant before selling at the other lower bids.
The distance between the best bid and best offer is called the spread,
as in, the bid-ask spread.
The point at the middle of the bid-ask spread is called the midpoint price.
The midpoint price is used as a benchmark from which to calculate transaction costs.
We'll come back to the midpoint price in a little bit.
Let's say the execution desk of a hedge fund wishes to buy 300 shares of a stock.
They can take a look at the existing offers to sell from other market participants.
Notice how they could buy 100 shares at a particular price,
but then they would either wait for other participants to offer at the same price,
or they could decide to pay slightly more to buy
additional shares because of what's being offered in the market.
In general, the total amount of shares that you may want to buy
probably won't all be available from a single seller at a single price.
So your original parent order is broken up into smaller child orders.